Add: Reset custom SSL certificate to default self-signed (#2886)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_reset-custom-ssl-certificate-to-default-self-signed-certificate-on-smartproxy.adoc

[id="reset-custom-ssl-certificate-to-default-self-signed-certificate-on-{smart-proxy-context}_{context}"]
= Reset {customssl} certificate to default self-signed certificate on {SmartProxyServer}

> To reset the {customssl} certificate to default self-signed certificate on your {SmartProxyServer}, you must re-register your {SmartProxy} through *Global Registration*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reset the {customssl} certificate to default self-signed certificate on your {SmartProxyServer}, you must re-register your {SmartProxyServer} through *Global Registration*.
```

> See {ManagingHostsDocURL}Registering_Hosts_by_Using_Global_Registration_managing-hosts[Registering hosts by using global registration] in _{ManagingHostsDocTitle}_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see {ManagingHostsDocURL}Registering_Hosts_by_Using_Global_Registration_managing-hosts[Registering hosts by using global registration] in _{ManagingHostsDocTitle}_.
```

.Verification

> . On the {ProjectWebUI}, go to *Infrastructure > {SmartProxies}* and click on any {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Infrastructure* > *{SmartProxies}* and select any {SmartProxyServer}.
```

. On the *Overview* tab, click *Refresh features*.

.Additional Resources
* {InstallingServerDocURL}reset-custom-ssl-certificate-to-default-self-signed-certificate-on-{project-context}_{project-context}[Reset {customssl} certificate to default self-signed certificate on {ProjectServer}] in _{InstallingServerDocTitle}_.
* {ManagingHostsDocURL}reset-custom-ssl-certificate-to-default-self-signed-certificate-on-hosts_managing-hosts[Reset {customssl} certificate to default self-signed certificate on hosts] in _{ManagingHostsDocTitle}_.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[id="reset-custom-ssl-certificate-to-default-self-signed-certificate-on-{smart-proxy-context}_{context}"]
= Reset {customssl} certificate to default self-signed certificate on {SmartProxyServer}

Use this procedure to reset {customssl} certificate to default self-signed certificate on your {SmartProxyServer}.

.On {ProjectServer}
. Generate a new certificate tar bundle for {SmartProxyServer}.
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {certs-generate} \
--foreman-proxy-fqdn _{smart-proxy-context}.example.com_ \

> --certs-tar /root/_{smart-proxy-context}.example.com_-certs.tar.gz \

Reviewer 2: The tar bundle generated [ or to be copied later on ] should not be `tar.gz` but just `tar` as far as I can tell. At least that is what every documentation points out. You can check out the smart-proxy\capsule installation doc for reference.

Author: Till now we had a `tar` but Ewoud fixed it with this [comment](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1874045#c13). I also see the same in this [PR](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-installer/pull/911/files)

Reviewer 2: It's only applicable from foreman 3.10 onwards. Sat 6.15 uses foreman 3.9 and hence the changes are not applicable there. Also, for a higher version i.e. 3.10, If you decide to mention `tar.gz` in one place, the same needs to be reflected in every other place as well.

Author: Noted. I can limit the cherry-picking of this PR up to `3.10` only. I will have another PR with just `tar` that will go beyond `3.9`.

> --foreman-proxy-fqdn _{smart-proxy-context}.example.com_ \
> --certs-tar /root/_{smart-proxy-context}.example.com_-certs.tar.gz \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--foreman-proxy-fqdn _{smartproxy-example-com}_ \
--certs-tar /root/_{smartproxy-example-com}_-certs.tar.gz \
```

--certs-update-all
----
. Note down the {foreman-installer} command generated by the above command.
. Copy the new certificate tar bundle to {SmartProxyServer}.
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> # scp /root/_{smart-proxy-context}.example.com_-certs.tar.gz \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# scp /root/_{smartproxy-example-com}_-certs.tar.gz \
```

> root@_{smart-proxy-context}.example.com_:/root/_{smart-proxy-context}.example.com_-certs.tar.gz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
root@_{smartproxy-example-com}_:/root/_{smartproxy-example-com}_-certs.tar.gz
```

----

.On {SmartProxyServer}
. Ensure you received the certificate tar file from {ProjectServer}.

> . Update the new `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` package:

Reviewer 3: I feel like we need some logic that states if using this RPM. There should be hosts registered via global registration that won't have this and need to use a different method to get the updated certificates.

Reviewer 3: Some more details, `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` is a deprecated method for configuring a host. There may be existing hosts or new users using this method still; however, there are hosts that are being registered with Global Registration feature. That feature does not use this RPM at all.

Author: @ehelms Shall I move with `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` way for SmartProxy?

Reviewer 3: I think I am saying we need to cover both or make sure the right caveats are present, e.g. `If using katello-ca-consumer....`

Author: Reverted from `katello-ca-consumer` to Global Registration for SmartProxy :+1:

> . Update the new `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` package:

Reviewer 2: An update of the katello-ca-consumer is needed [ whether on capsule or any managed hosts ] to populate the new SSL certificate information on the hosts. 

For managing the hosts guide, I see that we have skipped the usage of `katello-ca-consumer update` but instead suggested to re-register them using the Global Registration method.

If so, Then for capsule\external smart-proxy also the same should be applicable instead of using katello-ca-consumer as Capsule\External Smart-proxy is essentially a Client of Satellite\Foreman only.

Author: So can we go with the `Global Registration` way in the SmartProxy as well? Instead of `katello-ca-consumer`, because it is deprecated.

Reviewer 2: That is the only way forward if the goal is to get away from katello-ca-consumer but still, we need to reflect the changes related to SSL certs. 

Once both https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2185634 and https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2124052 are fixed, then this part can further be improved i believe.

Author: As per our talk, we are keeping `katello-ca-consumer` for SmartProxy as of now until the above BZs are closed.

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> # dnf install https://_{project-context}.example.com_/pub/katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# dnf install https://_{foreman-example-com}_/pub/katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm
```

# subscription-manager refresh
----
. Execute the entire `{foreman-installer}` command provided by `{certs-generate}` command from {ProjectServer}.

.Verification

> . On the {ProjectWebUI}, go to *Infrastructure > Capsules* and click on any {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the {ProjectWebUI}, go to *Infrastructure > {SmartProxies}* and click on any {SmartProxyServer}.
```
